There is a very serious issue that extremists have misused
And misguided a lot of people with
And we must understand it correctly in our religion
They said that there is something called governance,
Meaning that we are being ruled by infidel laws that do not relate to religion.
Therefore we can’t obey such infidel government laws
Backing up their argument with this verse from the qur’an
“If any do fail to judge by the light of what Allah hath revealed,
They are no better than Unbelievers.”
A verse we all know in the qur’an
But, there are seven basic concepts we must know to understand this verse properly
What does  “If any do fail to judge by what Allah hath revealed,
They are Unbelievers.” mean?
First of all, there are levels of of not judging by God’s laws
Which include disbelief and denial and also include neglect and dereliction
The first two are true infidelity and the second are shameful sins.
And given that we have not seen any of today’s muslim countries in the entire islamic world
Denying publicly or privately ruling by God’s laws
Then all that they’re saying is wrong.
Secondly, most constitutions of the islamic world clearly state
That the principles of islamic laws (sharia) are the main source of governing laws.
Thirdly, describing the laws as infidelities distant from religion
Is very unjust.
The laws are derived from (sharia) islamic laws
Because a lot of the laws are made for the benefits of the people
Therefore, they are achieving the goals of (sharia)
Religious law because the goal or purpose of sharia
In the first place is sustaining the benefits of the people.
Fourthly, everything in alignment with the purposes of sharia
from protecting souls, minds, religion, families, and money
Is from God’s laws.
Therefore the goals of the laws are achieving the purpose of sharia laws.
Fifth, across the course of history, muslims understood
That islam is applying provisions with the purpose of achieving the wellbeing of people’s interests
And that the obstruction of some sentences like certain punishments
Happens either for missing one of the conditions making it applicable
Or for emergency circumstances
Also for the wellbeing of the people and not in defiance of God’s laws.
Like Omar Ibn Al Khattab did in the year of the starvation,
He disabled the punishment for stealing,
Was that an act of defiance of God’s laws?
Of course not! But he kept into consideration the time and place and circumstances
When applying religious laws
Sixth, if we assume that a law has been passed
That’s incompatible with sharia laws what do we do?
We turn to the constitutional court
Because the role of the constitutional court is to cancel any law that’s incompatible with sharia laws
But, in a civilized way
And not in an unorganized and violent way
Or through individual actions.
Finally and after all what we said,
If someone is insisting on a wrong idea,
Then they are the ones that are following laws other than God’s.
And religion disapproves of their actions,
Because then all they truly seek is to coat righteousness with wrongness
For a personal inclination.